---
layout: post
title: "Ethereum and Smart Contracts"
permalink: /ethereum-smart-contracts/
---

## Smart Contracts 🤝

Code that facilitates, verifies, and enforces the negotiation and execution of a digital contract.

## Ethereum

- Decentralized platform designed to run smart contracts.
    - Executes blocks of code (in the form of smart contracts)
    - Transactions change the *global state*, which can contain more than just transactions like in Bitcoin
- Ethereum is also a cryptocurrency: **Ether** is the native asset

| Bitcoin | Ethereum |
| ------- | -------- |
| Used/created specifically for transcations | Purpose is to run smart contracts |
| Simple and robust | Complex and feature-rich |
| UTXO based | Account based |
| Proof of Work | Proof of Work/Stake |

### Ethereum Accounts

- There are two kinds of accounts:
    1. Externally owned accounts: Owned by people, companies, etc. and can send transactions to transfer ether or trigger smart contract code.
    2. Contract accounts: held by smart contracts.

### UTXO vs. Ethereum Accounts

- Pros and cons of the UTXO model:

    | Pros | Cons |
    | ---- | ---- |
    | Easy to program | Memory inefficient |
    | Good at checking double-spending and transaction validity | Harder to check a user's balance |

- Smart contracts are autonomous agents on the Ethereum network
    - Has control over internal contract state and internal ether balance.

## Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)

- Distributed "super-computer"
- Everyone has the same EVM / global state so that the execution of smart contracts is the same for all nodes in the network.
- The network comes to consensus on the state of the EVM.

### Gas

- What happens is a smart contract runs an infinite loop?
    - Every smart contract requires a "gas fee" to "fuel" execution
    - `startgas`: max quantity of gas the person proposing the smart contract is willing to spend
    - `gasprice`: the gas to ether ratio; if this is higher, then you will spend more for the same amount of computation than if you set gasprice to be lower

Ethereum is not about computational efficiency, since it's inefficient to do parallel processing on the same smart contract execution. Ethereum is about maintaining trust in a global state (EVM).

## Use Cases

- Not everything should be put on a blockchain!
    - Currency
    - Public registry
    - Prediction markets
